=The Company=
=Season 1=
(Adapted from Xuan Se's novel
of the same title.)
=Episode 7=
Aren't you supposed to be going
to the Liuyun Poetry Gathering?
Why are you signing here?
Maybe I shouldn't go.
Why not?
Mr. Jiang Ling saved my life
and kindly invited me
without looking down on my low status.
But I'm plain-looking,
and I don't have a decent outfit.
If I go there so rashly,
won't I only embarrass him even more?
That's not true.
I won't allow you
to look down on yourself like that.
The Liuyun Poetry Gathering
is the most splendid banquet
in the entire Lake Dongting.
You should go take a look.
But everyone attending
will be noble ladies,
beauties, and famed courtesans.
How could I compare to them?
"Her face is seen in flower
and her dress in cloud."
Many beauties
in this world
are simply dressed up in fine clothes.
Chan,
look.
So beautiful.
Don't worry, Chan.
Tonight,
I'll make you the prettiest lady.
Do I look good, Nuan?
Yes.
Thank you, Nuan.
Remember to come back early tonight.
It's dangerous at night.
Say, Nuan,
the officer who bullied me
the other night is dead.
Right by that small road
where you came to pick me up.
If he bullied you,
then he was a bad man.
Such people
deserve to die.
Chan,
you wouldn't know
how many wicked things
that officers did before
to meet such retribution.
Anyway,
bad people
will be punished by Heaven.
Since
he's paid his dues,
you should feel at ease now.
Besides,
both Heaven and I
are watching over you.
I'll always protect you.
(Blossom Parlor)
This place is much prettier
than Zuichun House.
Look at this calligraphy.
The brushwork is so smooth.
May I ask
where Mr. Jiang Ling is?
You can look for him inside.
This...
Please come in, Miss.
A mere servant dares
to think so highly of yourself?
I provide you with food, clothes,
and shelter.
Instead of earning money
for me in return,
you start dreaming of freedom?
Sir,
it's all my fault.
It has nothing to do with Yanyan.
I beg you.
Please be merciful
and let Yanyan go.
- I'll serve you my whole life.
- Yanyan.
Whole life?
You say that so easily?
But
do you have more time left?
No. Please spare me, sir.
It's all my fault.
I was being foolish.
Mr. Chen knows nothing at all.
I'm willing to return to Zuichun House
to serve you the rest of my life
until I die.
Sir, please.
Please spare him.
Yanyan.
Do you remember?
Your name was given by me.
I rescued you from the slaughterhouse.
You eat and drink well in Zuichun House.
Mr. Jiang Ling.
You are raised fair and clean.
And now you speak of love?
I've been alone since childhood.
If I die, no one will remember me.
But Mr. Chen has an elderly mother
and young siblings.
Mr. Jiang,
heaven cherishes life,
and humans have compassion.
Mr. Jiang.
I'm begging you.
Please spare Mr. Chen.
I'll give you a chance.
Kill him.
No.
Kill him,
and I'll spare you.
Afraid?
I'll teach you.
Mr. Jiang.
Yanyan.
Kill me.
Don't worry.
It'll be quick.
No.
Like this.
Just kill me.
Yanyan!
Chop off her hand.
No.
Let go of her.
Yanyan!
- Who's there?
- Yanyan!
Go take a look.
Over there.
Mr. Jiang, someone jumped
into the water.
We didn't see their face.
- Chan.
- Nuan.
What happened?
Come, sit down.
Nuan.
Nuan, I...
Chan.
Take it. Share it with others.
Your hairpin doesn't look good.
You should fix it.
Have you heard?
Last time it was an officer.
Just three days later,
they found a severed hand
by the lake again.
Severed hand?
Yes.
Whose hand?
Linglong went to identify it.
She said the bracelet on it
belonged to Yanyan.
It must be hers.
Yanyan really had a hard life.
I heard
that man was cruel.
He tricked her with a promise
to elope with her.
But in fact, he took all her savings
and then killed her.
Poor Yanyan.
I thought she had
finally escaped her misery.
Why are you all chatting here?
Go entertain guests now.
Chan,
someone's looking for you.
A young master.
He's at the entrance.
Young master?
Who is he?
Who cares
what kind of young master he is?
Hurry up and move now.
Quick.
Last night at the pleasure boat banquet,
I didn't see you, Miss Chan.
I thought
you might be willing to attend.
Last night...
Last night, I wasn't feeling well,
so I couldn't make it.
I failed your kind invitation.
I see.
Your health is more important.
I'm much better now.
There's somewhere I need to be.
Do you recognize this?
The gift I gave you.
Keep it safe.
Since we missed each other last night,
why not visit
my residence today?
No.
I noticed your pale complexion
and planned to ask my physician
to read your pulse
and prescribe some medicine.
You're weak.
Don't let a small illness
cost your life.
That would truly be
a shame.
Most lamentable.
Mr. Jiang.
Mr. Jiang, you came at the right time.
I was about to report
last month's accounts to you.
Why isn't she out yet?
Did we miss her again?
- Over here.
- This way, please.
Gentlemen,
I'm sorry.
I saw her just a moment ago,
but when I stepped away,
the other girls said
she had left.
Again?
Very well.
Another wasted trip.
Where can we find her now?
Gentlemen,
why are you looking for her?
We're trying to get that candle back.
You've looked for her several times
for that candle.
You both seem like decent people.
Please don't trouble her.
Don't misunderstand.
We won't trouble her.
On the contrary, that candle
will bring her danger.
Really?
Yes.
We're trying to help her.
Could you tell us where she lives?
She lives
by the western lotus pond,
beside the crooked-neck willow tree.
Thank you.
You must help her, gentlemen.
Please.
(Zuichun House)
Nuan, we should pack our things
and leave this place now.
What are you doing?
I'm making some preparations.
These flowers are highly poisonous.
I know.
In times like this,
everyone keeps something
for self-defense.
For self-defense?
Yes.
I can only feel at ease
if I keep you safe.
Keep me safe?
Then just protect me.
Why must you harm others?
Are you planning to poison
Mr. Jiang Ling?
Give it to me.
What else can we do then?
If you don't kill him,
he'll kill you.
I'm doing this for your own good.
We can go somewhere else
and start over.
Where?
I'm just a mermaid of Dongting.
You're just an orphan.
But this world
is full of sanctimonious people
like Mr. Jiang Ling.
To deal with the likes of them,
you must tear off their masks
and strike first.
Besides,
he deceived you.
Poisoning him
is already merciful.
Nuan,
how did you become so cruel?
Cruel?
You say
I'm cruel?
Isn't killing cruel?
I don't want you to do that.
Where's the gentle Nuan from before?
I don't want you to be like this.
People say the lotus
remains pure despite the mud.
But
without mud,
there would be no lotus.
Where do you think
everything you eat, wear, and use
comes from?
When we first met,
that steamed bun I gave you
was meant for you.
The pears.
I stole them.
Hurry and eat it. It's very sweet.
The hairpin.
I stole it from the night market.
This one
suits you very well.
I think you could try the green one.
Right?
That outfit really
brings out your looks.
And the chicken for stew,
I stole that too.
I only wanted you
to eat something good once in a while.
But it's never that easy.
And the beautiful clothes you wore
to meet Mr. Jiang Ling.
I stole that too.
Chan,
everything I did
was for your own good.
What about
the officer?
The one who died by the river.
That beast
tried to harass you.
He should've died long ago.
- Chan.
- Don't come near me.
Chan.
- Chan.
- Don't come near me!
Why?
Chan.
Why are you afraid of me?
In this world,
the one who treats you best
is only me.
Chan.
Careful!
Help!
- Nuan.
- Help!
Nuan.
We can't get out.
I will get you out.
Nuan, we can't get out anymore.
Nuan,
we really can't get out of here.
♪Memories are like flickering dim light♪
♪A sudden gust rekindles them♪
♪Your reddened, dewy eyes♪
Here, eat some meat.
♪Like shattered moonlight♪
♪Sweeping through the space♪
♪Lifting the haze of the past♪
♪A hand reaching into the dark♪
♪Will warp you in the cold winter night♪
♪Giving you a shoulder to lean on♪
♪Regardless of a starless sky♪
♪I wander through ruins everywhere♪
♪Yet I never feel lost♪
♪I want the candlelight to burn bright♪
Look.
So beautiful.
Nuan,
you always manage to read my mind.
My Chan,
you're no inferior
to any other noble ladies.
Keep this in mind.
Never look down
upon yourself.
♪I'll always be by your side♪
Thank you, Nuan.
♪I want the candlelight to blaze♪
♪To light up the boundless darkness♪
♪I'll spare nothing to light your hope♪
♪Until the final inch of wick is gone♪
♪Until the smoke drifts away♪
♪I'll guard you through a gentle dream♪
♪A thousand trails of candle tears♪
♪Like bright moonlight♪
♪The flame flickers softly♪
♪Waking restless illusions♪
♪Only to keep you company at night♪
Chan!
♪I want the candlelight to blaze♪
♪To light up the boundless darkness♪
♪I'll spare nothing to light your hope♪
♪Until the final inch of wick is gone♪
♪Until the smoke drifts away♪
♪You say the world is cold♪
Human life
is between life and death.
♪To melt frost on your shoulders♪
♪I want this ragged world
to illuminate for you♪
♪In a lonely, chilly tent♪
♪I'll stay with you
through winter and summer♪
♪In this lifetime♪
♪I came for you♪
♪And I'll go with you♪
There's someone inside.
We have to save them.
I'll go, Su Beilu.
No. I'm going too.
I'll be fine. Listen to me.
- No.
- Wait here!
Nuan.
Nuan is still inside.
Su Beilu!
Your clothes are burned.
Are you hurt?
No.
Why are you always so reckless?
She said there was someone inside.
Of course, I had to check.
What if you couldn't get out?
I have you.
Me? Then...
Then,
what if I can't get out either?
You'd still find a way.
Nuan.
Thank goodness you're all right.
She's awake.
Thank you for saving me.
Please don't do that.
I think no one saw us rescue you.
This way leads straight to the dock.
We prepared a boat for you.
You should leave now.
Thank you, sir.
If fate allows,
I'll repay you someday.
Wait, Miss.
The candle in your hand
belonged to a friend of mine.
May I have it back?
Nuan,
wait for me at the door.
Sir,
this candle is very important to me.
It's been with me for many years.
Besides,
it's not just a candle.
It's Nuan.
Nuan has always stayed with me.
I can't give it to you.
This candle can't turn into a person.
Your Nuan
is nothing but a hope you imagined
when you had your hardest time.
Now that things have come to this,
it's time to wake up.
What are you talking about?
Imagine?
Nuan is right there.
You're the ones
who saved her from the fire.
Just now,
when I rushed into the place,
there was
no one inside.
What are you on about?
Nuan is right...
There's no one here
but you.
Nuan doesn't exist at all.
Wake up, Miss.
Give it back to me.
Nuan.
Chan,
life
is between you and me.
Nuan.
You could've started a new life
on your own.
You just couldn't let go of
the suffering and regret of the past.
Beyond this door is a new beginning.
Are you willing to try?
Is it really all right
to let her leave alone
like this?
I'm not sure either.
But she has to find her own path.
We can't help her forever.
That's true.
At least she survived.
What does this candle remind you of?
(Caiwei, maidservant)
How does it taste?
The brew is good,
and the cups are fine too.
You couldn't sleep at night.
What's troubling you, Ziyi?
I've always disliked power,
yet trouble came to me.
I'm mired in it.
Why can't they understand?
For people who chase
fame and profit,
what they really crave is
a prison I wish to avoid.
All I ever want
is freedom.
I have no ambition.
I only wish to push a few reforms,
but every step is hard.
Fine brew alone won't do tonight.
Would you come somewhere with me?
Sure.
Then, I'll trouble Miss Caiwei
to wait outside.
Yes.
Please.
This view exists only in dreams.
Five-colored light
piercing the Ziwei stars.
This must be it.
With such beauty,
will you let go of your worries,
my friend?
The universe is vast.
All beings are free.
I feel more and more
that I'm but a mayfly
between heaven and earth,
trapped in a mundane world.
Forgive me.
I was rambling.
It doesn't make any sense.
It's fine.
Compared to the boundless skies,
a human life
passes in a blink.
You should seize the present
and fulfill your aims,
so as not to leave regrets.
Bizhi.
Who are you, really?
Your friend.
Looks like
Heaven has been kind
to me.
Having a friend like you
is a great gift in my life.
The honor is mine.
Coming to see you tonight
was the right choice.
The road of the human world is long.
The journey is worth it.
Caiwei.
Something's happened to Mr. Qin.
May I speak with you?
Come on in.
What is it?
The sudden death
of the Second Young Master
has been pinned on Mr. Qin.
In truth, it's because his reforms
affected family interests.
After returning home yesterday,
he was confined.
He sends me to tell you this.
"My innocence will define me
in the end, so don't worry."
How long will the confinement last?
They're seeking witnesses.
If none are found,
they'll look for physical evidence.
Mr. Qin says
it's only a matter of a few days.
Please wait.
Witness and evidence?
I can look for them for Ziyi.
Mr. Qin says,
unless it's absolutely necessary,
you need not act.
I take my leave.
Wait.
You dropped a candle here last night.
Thank you.
Please keep me informed of
Ziyi's situation.
Yes.
At that time,
I had a sense of unease in my heart.
I never thought
that night would be the last I saw Ziyi.
I see.
There's one more thing we need to do.
What is it?
To make them believe
Chan is dead.
(Yashe)
Sorry.
It got burned.
It can't be used anymore.
It's fine.
But using sheep bones in the fire
to pass them off
as Chan's remains
was clever.
That way, no one will trouble her again.
When you wouldn't
let me warn Li Yansheng,
I thought you were cold-hearted.
Turns out you're actually quite kind.
I didn't do anything.
It's just that Chan wasn't meant to die.
How's your injury?
I have this.
It can help heal wounds.
Is this
a nanobot?
Something like that.
And your injury?
I'm fine. Just got scorched by the fire.
Some ointment will do.
You're always pushing yourself
like this.
What if something really happens?
You can make me another one of those
nanobot suits of yours.
(Attended)
(Yashe)
Bye-bye.
Remember to come find me again
next time.
(This can't go on.)
(If he isn't Mr. Qin,)
(I shouldn't keep bringing him along
through time travel.)
(Away)
(Yashe)
(If danger arises,)
(history will repeat itself.)
(Days pass, months move on)
(Gentle as Breeze)
(Year 2021)
(2021?)
(Let's begin from 2021.)
♪Memories are like flickering dim light♪
♪A sudden gust rekindles them♪
♪Your reddened, dewy eyes♪
♪Like shattered moonlight♪
♪Sweeping through the space♪
♪Lifting the haze of the past♪
♪A hand reaching into the dark♪
♪Will warp you in the cold winter night♪
♪Giving you a shoulder to lean on♪
♪Regardless of a starless sky♪
♪I wander through ruins everywhere♪
♪Yet I never feel lost♪
♪I want the candlelight to burn bright♪
♪To melt frost on your shoulders♪
♪I want this ragged world♪
♪To illuminate for you♪
♪In a lonely, chilly tent♪
♪I'll stay with you
through winter and summer♪
♪I'll always be by your side♪
♪I want the candlelight to blaze♪
♪To light up the boundless darkness♪
♪I'll spare nothing♪
♪To light your hope♪
♪Until the final inch of wick is gone♪
♪Until the smoke drifts away♪
♪I'll guard you through a gentle dream♪
♪Fear not♪
♪A hand reaching into the dark♪
♪Will warp you in the cold winter night♪
♪Giving you a shoulder to lean on♪
♪Regardless of a starless sky♪
♪I wander through ruins everywhere♪
♪Yet I never feel lost♪
♪I want the candlelight to burn bright♪
♪To melt frost on your shoulders♪